Document annotations API in SDK reference docs (#3368)
ably/docs: src/pages/docs/messages/annotations.mdx

## Subscribe to annotation summaries <a id="subscribe" />

The simplest way to receive annotation updates is via annotation summaries. A message that has annotations also includes a summary, which is a synopsis of certain details of all annotations for that message. Summaries are updated in response to further annotation events for that message, and summary changes are delivered by default to subscribing clients.

When an already-existing message has an updated summary, the new version of that message will be delivered to subscribers with an [`action`](/docs/api/realtime-sdk/types#action) of `message.summary` (as opposed to `message.create` for the originally-published one), and a `serial` matching the `serial` of the original message. It will have an `annotations` field which contains a `summary` of all the annotations for the message.

> If you're not subscribing, you also retrieve the current version of a message, including the latest version of its summary, using [`channel.getMessage()`](/docs/api/rest-sdk/channels#get-message). Messages returned from [history](/docs/storage-history/history) also include the latest summary at the time the history request is made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're not subscribing, you can also retrieve the latest version of the message and it's summary, using [`channel.getMessage()`](/docs/api/rest-sdk/channels#get-message). The returned `message` contains the up-to-date `summary`, accessible via `message.annotations.summary`. Messages returned from [history](/docs/storage-history/history) also include the latest summary at the time the history request is made.
```

Reviewer 2: I would suggest not inlining the method as `channel.getMessage()` because that makes it look like it's called with no arguments. Either `channel.getMessage(serial)` or `channel.getMessage` would be better IMO

Reviewer 2: Also to complicate things further, the method isn't called `getMessage` in swift or python. i'm not really sure what the best way to express this is, but in any case my point above still stands

```
</Code>

## Retrieve annotations <a id="retrieve" />

To retrieve all annotations that have been published for a message, use the `annotations.get()` method on a channel. Pass in either a [message](/docs/messages) instance or the `serial` of the message. This returns a [paginated result](/docs/api/realtime-sdk/types#paginated-result) containing every individual annotation event for that message, starting from the earliest. You can pass an optional `limit` to control the page size.

<Aside data-type='note'>

> You should only use this method if you need the full list of individual, raw annotations. If you only need the latest [annotation summary](#annotation-summaries) for a message — for example on a channel you are not subscribed to, where you are not receiving `message.summary` updates — use [`channel.getMessage()`](/docs/messages/updates-deletes#get) instead. The returned message contains the up-to-date `annotations.summary`.

Reviewer: > Deployed current branch preview at https://ably-docs-annotations-g-nzmo0d.herokuapp.com/docs/messages/annotations with username/password = `preview`. 

This seems like a really short note to retrieve annotation summary for given `message/message-serial`.

As a third person going through the docs, I understand following

**Annotations as a feature is defined by the summary  =>**

- The five aggregation methods (total.v1, flag.v1, distinct.v1, unique.v1, multiple.v1) all exist to produce different shapes of summary. 
- Since, `summary` is a user-facing output, we should explicitly mention ways to retrieve it.
- IMHO, a dedicated section to retrieve `individual annotations` using [channel.annotations.get](https://ably-docs-annotations-g-nzmo0d.herokuapp.com/docs/messages/annotations#retrieve) with examples provides a very limited use-case value. Also, same events can already be consumed in real time via [annotations.subscribe](https://ably-docs-annotations-g-nzmo0d.herokuapp.com/docs/messages/annotations#individual-annotations). 

Keeping [channel.annotations.get](https://ably-docs-annotations-g-nzmo0d.herokuapp.com/docs/messages/annotations#retrieve) section is fine, but a section focused on retrieving summaries under [channel.subscribe](https://ably-docs-annotations-g-nzmo0d.herokuapp.com/docs/messages/annotations#subscribe) with relevant examples would provide significantly more value to readers/LLMs. 

So, a new `Retrieve annotation summary` section can be added with examples using `channel.getMessage` and `channel.history` -> [Internal slack link - ways to retrieve summary](https://ably-real-time.slack.com/archives/C09M25LCZLP/p1778144302751519?thread_ts=1778143546.471429&cid=C09M25LCZLP)

Reviewer: Other changes look good

Author: > a section focused on retrieving summaries under channel.subscribe with relevant examples would provide significantly more value

This already exists, it's the section entitled ["Subscribe to annotation summaries"](https://ably.com/docs/messages/annotations#subscribe).

Reviewer: Above mentioned link [Internal slack link - ways to retrieve summary](https://ably-real-time.slack.com/archives/C09M25LCZLP/p1778144302751519?thread_ts=1778143546.471429&cid=C09M25LCZLP), Currently, 3 ways to show summaries

```
1. Live: subscribe to the channel message listener; the server pushes `MESSAGE_SUMMARY` actions.
2. Per-message latest: `channel.getMessage(serial).annotations.summary`.
3. Bulk historical: `channel.history()`; each `Message` already carries `annotations.summary`.
```
We missing section for 2nd and 3rd one, they are specific to `Retrieve annotation summary` rather than [Subscribe to annotation summaries](https://ably.com/docs/messages/annotations#subscribe).

Author: I don't agree that annotations.summary being a field on a message means that the annotation docs should have individual sections documenting every api we have that is capable of retrieving messages . Those apis have their own docs pages: once a user knows that the annotation summary is part of the message, they can use that knowledge together with other parts of our documentation; the annotations page need not stand in isolation.

But I am happy to [add a short paragraph](https://github.com/ably/docs/pull/3368/commits/9236f1ad7101dd8cd88b5381a1cc35fd12eae753) mentioning those two apis to document that both they will indeed give you the latest version of the summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Aside data-type='note'>
You should only use this method if you need the full list of individual, raw annotations. If you only need the latest [annotation summary](#annotation-summaries) for a message — for example on a channel you are not subscribed to, where you are not receiving `message.summary` updates — use [`channel.getMessage()`](/docs/messages/updates-deletes#get) instead. The returned `message` contains the up-to-date `summary`, accessible via `message.annotations.summary`. 
```

Reviewer: Thanks — I suggested a few minor changes to make the access to the summary more explicit. This should help both third person readers and LLMs better understand the context.
Otherwise, the PR looks much better than before.
